docs/developer-guide/back4app-implementation.md, before:

# Back4App Implementation

## Client Side

Code: *precept_back4app_client* package.

Contains implementations for [DataProvider](data-providers.md) and `PDataProvider`.

See the [Tutorial](../tutorial-guide/tutorial.md) for a step by step application starter.

### Invoking Server Initialisation

?????????????

### Server Side Schema Generation

Server side validation code is actually generated by the client, so that the code can be deployed using the Back4App CLI.

This helps keep code changes secure and controlled.

There are two packages used for this:

*precept_dev_app* is currently CLI only, but may have a GUI added later.  

It allows the developer to select a target project, then takes a copy of *precept_server_code_generator*, inserts the `PScript` and `PSchema` definitions from the target project, forming a new, temporary project which actually generates the server javascript.

This apparently convoluted method enables `PScript` and `PSchema`:
 
 - to be defined in code, 
 - downloaded from somewhere
 - then combined into a single instance for code generation
 
 
:::tip Note

Only `PSchema` is actually used for code generation, but`PScript` instances mat also require combining and storing
:::   


## Server Side

Code: Javascript with Dart tests, *precept_back4app_server* package.

There are two aspects to the server side.

- Every Back4App instance used for Precept needs to have the [framework](#framework) set up.

- A Back4App instance may also be used as a [script store](#script-and-schema-store) to store `PScript` and `PSchema` instances. 

### Framework

The Back4App server-side implementation provides a simple framework, comprising a few Classes and cloud functions.

This supports the use of a single schema for both client and server side, through the use of [server side schema generation](#server-side-schema-generation).

:::tip Note
There is a slight difference in terminology here - for Back4App, every instance is an 'app'.  For Precept, an app may have a dev, test, qa and prod instance (for example),
each of which would be a separate Back4App 'app'.
:::

#### Initialise Instance

Every instance used with a Precept client needs to be initialised, a two step process:

1. the framework code must be deployed to the Back4App instance.  

1. the Cloud function **initPrecept** is invoked to create the Back4App [Classes](#classes) used to manage Schema versions.

Refer to the Tutorial for detailed steps to [create an app](../tutorial-guide/tutorial.md).

## Server Side Framework Classes


:::tip Note

There is an [outstanding issue](https://gitlab.com/precept1/precept_back4app_client/-/issues/7) to look at restructuring the *precept_back4app_backend* package.
:::


### Script and Schema store

Cloud Function **initScriptStore** prepares Back4App to store version controlled instances of `PScript` and `PSchema`.
 
It needs to be invoked only on the Back4App instance that will be used to store them., which may or may not be the instance being used to hold its data.


                                                                                  |

Commit message:

project renamed.  Started to change Precept to Takkan

docs/developer-guide/back4app-implementation.md, after:

# Back4App Implementation

## Client Side

Code: *takkan_back4app_client* package.

Contains implementations for [DataProvider](data-providers.md) and `DataProvider`.

See the [Tutorial](../tutorial-guide/tutorial.md) for a step by step application starter.

### Invoking Server Initialisation

?????????????

### Server Side Schema Generation

Server side validation code is actually generated by the client, so that the code can be deployed using the Back4App CLI.

This helps keep code changes secure and controlled.

There are two packages used for this:

*takkan_dev_app* is currently CLI only, but may have a GUI added later.  

It allows the developer to select a target project, then takes a copy of *takkan_server_code_generator*, inserts the `Script` and `Schema` definitions from the target project, forming a new, temporary project which actually generates the server javascript.

This apparently convoluted method enables `Script` and `Schema`:
 
 - to be defined in code, 
 - downloaded from somewhere
 - then combined into a single instance for code generation
 
 
:::tip Note

Only `Schema` is actually used for code generation, but`Script` instances may also require combining and storing
:::   


## Server Side

Code: Javascript with Dart tests, *takkan_back4app_server* package.

There are two aspects to the server side.

- Every Back4App instance used for Takkan needs to have the [framework](#framework) set up.

- A Back4App instance may also be used as a [script store](#script-and-schema-store) to store `Script` and `Schema` instances. 

### Framework

The Back4App server-side implementation provides a simple framework, comprising a few Classes and cloud functions.

This supports the use of a single schema for both client and server side, through the use of [server side schema generation](#server-side-schema-generation).

:::tip Note
There is a slight difference in terminology here - for Back4App, every instance is an 'app'.  For Takkan, an app may have a dev, test, qa and prod instance (for example),
each of which would be a separate Back4App 'app'.
:::

#### Initialise Instance

Every instance used with a Takkan client needs to be initialised, a two step process:

1. the framework code must be deployed to the Back4App instance.  

1. the Cloud function **initTakkan** is invoked to create the Back4App [Classes](#classes) used to manage Schema versions.

Refer to the Tutorial for detailed steps to [create an app](../tutorial-guide/tutorial.md).

## Server Side Framework Classes


:::tip Note

There is an [outstanding issue](https://gitlab.com/precept1/takkan_back4app_client/-/issues/7) to look at restructuring the *takkan_back4app_backend* package.
:::


### Script and Schema store

Cloud Function **initScriptStore** prepares Back4App to store version controlled instances of `Script` and `Schema`.
 
It needs to be invoked only on the Back4App instance that will be used to store them., which may or may not be the instance being used to hold its data.


                                                                                  |
