# Back4App Implementation

## Client Side

The Back4App client side implementation is provided by the the *precept_back4app_client* package.

It contains implementations for [DataProvider](data-providers.md) and `PDataProvider`.

The *initFramework* function assists in preparing a Back4App instance,
 
????? The client also provides a function to generate server side code ???? 

### Server Side Schema Generation

Server side validation code is actually generated by the client, so that the code can be deployed using the Back4App CLI.

## Server Side

There are two aspects to the server side.

- Every Back4App instance used for Precept needs to have the [framework](#framework) set up.

- A Back4App instance may also be used as a [script store](#script-and-schema-store) to store `PScript` and `PSchema` instances. 

### Framework

The Back4App server-side implementation provides a simple framework, comprising a few Classes and cloud functions.

This supports the use of a single schema for both client and server side, through the use of [server side schema generation](#server-side-schema-generation).

:::tip Note
There is a slight difference in terminology here - for Back4App, every instance is an 'app'.  For Precept, an app may have a dev, test, qa and prod instance (for example),
each of which would be a separate Back4App 'app'.
:::

#### Initialise Instance

Every instance used with a Precept client needs to be initialised, a two step process:

1. the framework code must be deployed to the Back4App instance.  

1. the Cloud function **initPrecept** is invoked to create the Back4App [Classes](#classes) used to manage Schema versions.

Refer to the Tutorial for detailed steps to [create an app](../tutorial-guide/tutorial.md).

Precept uses these classes:

| Class               | Purpose                                                                                          |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PreceptState        | Only ever has one row. Records the current and maximum available version of the framework        |
| PreceptStateHistory | A history of changes to PreceptState                                                             |


:::tip Note

There is an [outstanding issue](https://gitlab.com/precept1/precept_back4app_client/-/issues/7) to look at restructuring the *precept_back4app_backend* package.
:::


### Script and Schema store

Cloud Function **initScriptStore** prepares Back4App to store version controlled instances of `PScript` and `PSchema`.
 
It needs to be invoked only on the Back4App instance that will be used to store them.






